(bright, ambient, electronic music)
One of the most intriguing people
of the 20th century, in my opinion
was the man known as the sleeping prophet, Edgar Cayce.
His work has been documented in over 14,000 readings,
which have been studied in great depths
for several decades now.
Most of us know that he gave
amazingly accurate medical advice
and diagnosis during the first part of the last century.
But what is less known is the scope
of his influence in the world.
From presidents and oil magnets,
to movie stars and mostly, ordinary citizens in need.
His readings were sought worldwide.
Edgar was able to access the greater field
of consciousness, without filters.
Time and space were not relevant
as his remote readings proved
to be accurate the vast majority of the time.
No one has captured Cayce's life in a more
detailed way than biographer and author, Sidney Kirkpatrick.
Who wrote, "Edgar Cayce: An American Prophet."
You've written a lot of books.
As we were talking about off camera,
you spend a lot of time in archives,
writing about various dead people.
But the defining point in your life
was really when you encountered
Edgar Cayce's work.
And the life of Edgar Cayce.
By the way, your book is phenomenal.
In terms of just detailing all the richness of his life.
A beautiful biography, and I'll say right up front,
anyone interested in Edgar Cayce's life
really should delve into your work.
But what happened to you when you came
in contact with Cayce's work initially?
Why did you?
What motivated you?
And then how did that start effecting
and coloring the rest of your work in life.
Well, I was literally pulled in kicking and screaming.
I didn't want anything to do with Edgar Cayce.
I had some vague idea about who Edgar Cayce was
and the administrator at my childrens' school,
long-time Edgar Cayce fan.
Had been studying Edgar Cayce since she was in high school.
She immediately identified me as a biographer
parent in this school, and she said
you have to get an Edgar Cayce biography.
She just laid into me, day in and day out.
First in Edgar Cayce Venture Inward magazines
in the school mailbox, the old 1940's
biography of Cayce, "There is a River."
She just kept bombarding me with this stuff.
She seemed articulate, delightful,
but I didn't want anything to do with it.
Ridiculous.
I was of the opinion that anyone
who put their faith in a psychic
oughta visit a psychiatrist.
But of course now, I feel like
every psychiatrist oughta consult a psychic.
(laughing)
Before the ever treat a patient.
Well, there's one big conversion.
It was a real tug of war.
She kept asking me, "Well, what did you think?"
I was too embarrassed to even admit
I hadn't even looked at the stuff.
I kept throwing it in the back of the car.
It went back and forth like that
and finally, she pushed me to the point
where I actually did, I sat down and I read this biography.
I just didn't buy it.
I said, any story that's too good to be true, isn't.
As well meaning as these Edgar Cayce fans are,
it's been my experience as a biographer,
because I've been 20, 25 years,
behind a keyboard writing biographies.
Studying people's lives.
These stories get embellished over the years.
They get embroidered.
You may find them fascinating, but I was sure
that if you really got to the bottom of it,
if you really put your foot down
and got into the archives and started studying this stuff,
the stories about Edgar Cayce wouldn't hold up.
So, we were having this tug of war, and as it turned out
we were headed to Washington, D.C., essentially.
On the same plane.
The argument just picked up,
right where it had dropped off
at the Pasadena Waldorf School.
I thought you were probably talking about Waldorf.
Because of the Steiner works and so forth.
I understand that.
Yeah.
My son went there too.
Which one?
Sacramento, right next to the Steiner College.
Yeah, excellent.
All four of our kids have been through the Waldorf System.
But so, push came to shove and we ended up
here in the library right over here.
I was determined I was gonna go in
and I was gonna pick out one of these
alleged readings and I was gonna pick my way through it
and I would show her the error of her ways.
I think that was on a Thursday afternoon we arrived.
On Sunday morning, I was still looking for that reading
that was gonna show her how false these things really were.
I couldn't find it.
Harry Houdini, later,
tried to do the same thing right?
Yeah.
(Regina laughing)
That eventually led to a visit to the vault.
Explain what the vault is.
All of Edgar Cayce's extant papers, correspondence,
have all been collected, and they're together
at the vault in Virginia Beach
at the A.R.E. Headquarters.
Along with the original readings,
the ones that were transcribed,
right here behind us.
Yes, we're right in front of the famous sofa.
Such a thrill.
The sofa where Cayce gave readings.
There's pictures of Gladys Davis,
who was Edgar Cayce's secretary.
Who transcribed the readings.
I think, my experience is very similar
to almost every skeptic who takes
the time and trouble to actually go in
and start looking at the material.
Once you go in, the first thing that strikes you is
the sheer number of readings.
We're not speaking 200 readings, 500.
Well over 14,000.
Think of it, this is twice a day, everyday for 45 years.
You have the sheer volume of readings.
And then you have the specificity.
Edgar Cayce didn't speak in these vague ambiguous terms,
which so often we think of when we think of
trance communicated information.
He spoke names, dates, in terms of
the physical readings, body parts,
organ by organ, blood type, red blood count,
white blood count, these are specifics.
Things you really hold onto and really test.
As I said, he didn't do this in a limited number of times.
14,000 times, just think about it.
As one gets into it, it's no longer
a question of did he do what he is said to have done.
One starts asking, how did he do it?
Because the evidence is so overwhelming
that even an extreme skeptic coming into this,
when you see the volume of the material,
and you see the documentation behind it.
As you go into the vault, you'll see one
not only has the trance reading that Edgar Cayce
gave for that individual, but you have pages and pages
of background documentation that goes along with it.
You have testimony of the witnesses
who were there when Cayce gave that reading.
If you were to pick any psychic of world history out,
to prove the truth of psychic phenomena,
you just come to Edgar Cayce.
Edgar Cayce, absolutely.
I wouldn't say that Edgar Cayce
was the greatest psychic who ever lived,
because I think there have been
many, many important psychics.
But, if you're looking for evidence.
Documentation.
Hard proof of the truth of psychic phenomenon,
you just look in the vault.
You go through this transition,
you stop asking yourself,
"Did Edgar Cayce do what he is said to have done?"
Because the evidence is just overwhelming.
Then you start asking, "How?"
That's what gets you.
As soon as you make that leap,
at least it was for me, I couldn't turn away from it.
Because, it opens up a Pandora's box of questions.
As a journalist, investigator,
you want to get to the bottom of it.
And so, what ultimately happened is,
yes, that was my next book.
Next biography.
I think up unto that point,
I don't think I'd ever spent more than 2 years
researching a book.
The contract that I made with my publisher
was as a skeptic, I would write whatever I found.
I think the editors imagined Sidney Kirkpatrick
going into this subject is gonna be
shaking skeletons in the closet.
Right.
No, that's not what happened.
(Regina laughing)
Five years later, my editor in New York called me,
"Sid, Sid, where are you?"
"We're late on this book?"
It shows in your work though
it was worth the patience.
I told them I was in the Akashic Records.
He said, "Okay, let me know when you check out."
(laughing)
The book, which was envisioned
as being something relatively short,
250 pages, became a mammoth,
but it was a life-changer for me.
It's such an engaging read too.
But you cannot have been exposed
to that information and not have been a changed person.
It's effected almost everything I do,
from the way I treat my children and my wife, and marriage
in general, to how I approach every new project.
I start looking at different things.
I ask, from a biographer's point of view,
"Why is this soul come, incarnated, on earth?"
I don't bold and come out and ask that question,
but that's what I'm asking.
Who is their team?
Who did they come to participate with?
What was their challenge and what was the goal?
Did they accomplish that or not?
No matter what I'm doing,
I'm thinking along those terms.
That's really from a career point of view.
From a medical point of view,
we don't visit a physician until we've
searched the Edgar Cayce material.
It is such a wide range of resources, those readings.
It's so easy now to search on a computer
or computer database, that you can find
treatments and remedies for virtually everything.
Do you mind if I talk about
the one we spoke of off camera?
About hair?
Oh sure, male-pattern baldness.
Yeah, I love it.
So you were concerned about
male-pattern baldness, you weren't happy
with the thickness of your hair.
And so, sure enough, in the Cayce archives
you were able to find some information on it,
and now, voilà, you have beautiful hair.
I wanted to test the remedies, the treatments myself.
Big pay off too.
Several things we wanted to do,
as we started in this research.
Believe me, it was a team effort.
Nancy, who became my wife, we devoted
5, 6 years, driving across the country, researching.
We not only wanted to visit people
who had actually had readings,
but we wanted to use the treatments.
Of course, I immediately latched on
to hair loss treatments.
And you say your hair's
thicker now than it was 20 years ago?
Yeah, absolutely.
And growing.
That's fabulous.
Well, that's just one.
Thousands of people's lives were literally
saved as a result of having had the courage
against ridicule, in those days,
from family members, to have reached out
to Edgar for information.
One of the things that really strikes me
in reading your book, is that I didn't
really understand the colorful nature of his life.
Prior to the time when he and Gladys Davis,
hooked up and they started documenting
all of his medical readings.
That's the part of Cayce that I was more familiar with.
And I think most of us know him by.
But looking at your work, this man,
because he was who he was and had these
incredible capabilities, was really tested
by a lot of people.
Exploited by a lot of people.
He was sought after by the well-known.
People who've gone down in history.
Such as presidents, at least one that I know of,
that you wrote about.
Also, Edison and Tesla who were
hooked in on similar levels.
Well, Tesla anyway, right?
This man had, he was very ...
His abilities were well-known.
Certainly throughout the United States and even world.
Weren't they?
Yeah.
As a, coming at this from the
point of view of a researcher, biographer,
one of the first really exciting
to my mind discoveries, when I got into the vault.
Just like a physician patient relationship,
the names of people who'd had these readings,
and there's well over 6 - 7,000 of them.
Were kept private.
It was just a case number.
Yes.
Up until when Nancy and I,
really were granted unrestricted access to that vault.
That's how it had always been.
For good reasons.
There was no nefarious reason.
But you didn't want family's
personal medical problems,
by and large, they're mostly medical readings.
But when we put names to numbers,
the first exciting thing for me was,
"Oh my gosh, look at all these famous people."
Gloria Swanson, George Gershwin,
President of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company,
Duponts, many very important people of his generation.
World leaders, presidents, State Department officials.
A vice-president of the United States.
I immediately was very excited because,
"Oh, look at this, look at all these famous people."
It's interesting, because that's
not ultimately where it went.
At first, I was excited about the prospect of ...
Actually, I was excited about the prospect of exploiting it.
That's why I'm saying, most people would.
As I got into it, I began to realize that this really
isn't what the work is about at all.
One of the powerful and convincing things
to me as a biographer, was that Edgar Cayce
himself, did not exploit that.
He didn't go around beating his own drum.
And could very easily have done that.
Even though he was giving these readings
to many important people, stockbrokers,
oil men, people who were making a great deal of money,
in some cases, on these readings.
And trying to draw him into their business.
Everything, he was giving readings for
everything from vending machines to airport landing,
the landing lights on airstrips ...
David Sarnoff, head of NBC, was getting readings
on developing FM radio.
Edgar Cayce himself was not going public with that.
He kept it quiet, these are personal.
He was doing it because he
believed this was a gift from God
and it was not to be exploited.
So, A, that was very compelling.
As I started really getting in and looking
at the readings themselves, putting names
to those numbers, a very interesting thing happened.
Not only in my understanding of Edgar Cayce,
but in a general, if there's any contribution
however modest, that Sidney Kirkpatrick
could make as a biographer, was understanding
how integrated all of these readings are.
I'll give you examples.
A trance reading you might just blow past,
as a biographer, 14,000 plus readings,
take you 3 and a half years to read your way
from one end of this vault to the other.
You go through some of these readings,
not interested, you just blow right past it,
if it doesn't catch your attention
or isn't particularly long.
I remember one reading in specific,
it was for a older man from Selma, Alabama.
Who's requesting a quote.
"Can you recommend a good quote?"
That's it?
Something I would have just breezed right past.
But putting names to these numbers.
Okay, who is this guy?
It's Lamar Jones.
Who's Lamar Jones?
He's a tombstone cutter from Selma, Alabama.
He's looking for a quote for an inscription.
On a tombstone.
Oh, isn't this interesting, that his wife died
three days before the request came for this.
Oh, isn't this interesting that Lamar Jones
and his wife are godparents for the Cayce children.
Oh, isn't this interesting Lamar Jones
is Edgar Cayce's favorite fishing buddy.
All of a sudden, when you start putting
flesh and blood, that request,
and what comes through.
It takes on a deeper meaning.
As we went around the country, essentially
to research this, what we did is,
we bought a motorhome and the Edgar Cayce readings
were for the first time, put on a computer database.
Now, you can even get them online.
At that time it was a big hard drive on a computer,
because they had just been transcribed.
But we, essentially outfitted this motor home
with file cabinets, with a computer,
and essentially took off across the country.
Visiting all the places that Edgar Cayce lived and worked.
Looking for people who'd had readings.
Because readings were given as late
as the mid to late forties.
1945.
We could and we did find a number of people
who'd had readings, but what we found ...
We were talking about Selma, Alabama in particular.
We know of course, Edgar Cayce was a very devout Christian.
Wherever he lived, he was very active in the church.
When we were researching the book, we invariably
dropped anchor first at the First Christian Church.
Wherever we happened to be.
In many of these churches, most of
the ones we visited, actually, where Edgar Cayce attended,
he was a church deacon, he was the church secretary,
he was on the board, he was very active.
You could actually go into the church records
and see Edgar Cayce's own handwriting,
what his day was about, what he was up to in the church.
What I'm getting at is that in say,
Selma, Alabama, in particular,
as you went through these records,
knowing the names that went with those numbers.
One could say, "Oh, isn't this interesting?"
"Lamar Jones was another deacon here."
You look at this date and you see,
well, look who else was at this church meeting.
What you had developing are these groups.
In Selma, Alabama, in particular.
For example, the Butler family.
Edgar would give a reading for
one member of the Butler family
and they were concerned about their Aunt Mary,
who was in a mental asylum.
So, a reading was given on her.
Then a reading was given on the brother.
Then a reading was given on the uncle.
What you have happening
is almost like a family tree.
Actually, we had a family tree like this
on the wall of our motorhome as we were researching.
It goes up here and Edgar Cayce gives
this reading for one family member,
and almost invariably, you get 4 or 5 others.
You build these almost genealogical trees.
Instead of viewing the work as these famous people,
you start looking at it in a greater context.
You almost have a river, a genealogical river.
You start seeing that that's what
the Cayce work was all about.
Many people make a profound mistake,
and it's a natural mistake of thinking about Cayce's work.
Or Edgar Cayce's work, that this is somehow or another
his doing or he alone doing.
When, in reality, it's a much richer
and more complex kind of thing.
Edgar Cayce didn't do what he did alone.
He didn't.
He needed someone to guide him into trance.
Invariably, his wife Gertrude.
He needed someone to transcribe,
take down what he was saying.
Invariably his secretary, Gladys Davis.
He needed most of all, someone who
was in desperate need, genuine need of help.
Willing to come to him.
Willing to come to that team.
So, it was not one man's work.
It was a collective work.
I think that's very important to understanding
why today we have an entire library of readings,
which don't exist for many, many psychically gifted people.
Peter Hurkos, a very gifted Dutch psychic.
Eileen Garrett, the Irish psychic.
The fruition of their work didn't come together
as it has in Cayce, and I think with Cayce
it was because it was a collective work.
Right.
I don't know.
Well in addition to that, what I'm wondering is
you saw these family trees, so to speak, developing.
Did you see an interconnectedness, regarding
the maladies and the source of the maladies?
For example, could you see familial portraits
of illness that maybe stemmed from the spiritual
through to the mental or emotional and into the physical?
Did those kinds of patterns emerge?
Yes.
It's really one of the things that is
so exciting about studying Edgar Cayce today.
As opposed to the 1940's.
He died in 1946.
We have an opportunity, and people are doing it.
It's very exciting to see.
To study these treatments and who got them,
when and how, in a far more comprehensive way.
To be able, in Cayce's lifetime,
say you were suffering psoriasis.
We all know, psoriasis has been, and even today,
most people consider ... it's a skin condition.
When Edgar Cayce first started
giving his readings on psoriasis,
he said, "No, it's not a skin condition."
It's a result of the thinning of the
walls of the intestines and the colon
and toxins are leeching out.
Kinda like leaky gut.
Coming through the system
and it's escaping through the skin.
Elimination.
This is what's causing, and to treat it,
one has to change one's diet.
When Cayce started giving those readings in 1921,
it was dismissed as absurd.
Today, that's state of the art
psoriasis treatment at Johns Hopkins.
Cayce's on the map.
Getting, in 1922, you'd have to go to Edgar Cayce.
Today, of course, you can go online
and you can access this.
Today you can go online and you can see
a variety of psoriasis readings and you can
get into the science of it.
Just very exciting time, today.
In the having access to all of those readings,
gives you almost an exponential amount more information.
For example, one can see ...
One can do a search of these readings
and see how the treatments changed.
In looking at how the treatments changed, you wonder,
"Why did this treatment say for breast cancer?"
"Why all of a sudden?"
In these early readings, Cayce is suggesting
the source is recommending a type of rabbit skin.
You have to grow a particular kind of rabbit.
You have to skin it, and you have to apply
that skin to your breast.
Why is this changing?
Well, it's because another product
is actually introduced on the market.
All of a sudden.
You would expect to see that
over that number of years.
That's what happens.
Sometimes, it's absolutely quite remarkable,
because a product will have just been introduced
on the market within days of that reading.
All of a sudden, everything changes.
It's exciting, not only to see that,
but another aspect of this
is when Cayce gave help, in a trance reading.
He was giving help to you in particular
at this moment, at this time.
If you don't have access, say to the Mayo brothers' clinic.
If you can't afford that, say you're the wife
of a tombstone cutter, and you're not gonna
be able to get to the Mayo brothers' clinic
and can afford that, a treatment's given to you
that you can do yourself.
Right.
Who or whatever's coming through this man
seems to know you in particular,
and what you're capable of doing.
It's frightening, scary ...
It's awesome.
Awe-inspiring.
And when you were saying earlier
part of the success has been that this was a collective.
It had his wife and also Gladys and others.
Also you just mentioned source,
that's probably the greatest collaboration.
Was between he and whatever source the information was.
I think it was the team.
That was flowing through him.
I think it as a connection.
'Cause Cayce, in his waking state,
didn't remember anything he said in trance.
One has to ask, well why is that?
Well, and when you look at some of the
very early parts of his life that you've written about.
Where, in what was it, his second time
under hypnosis, someone wanted
to make a parlor joke out of him and said,
"Well, Edgar, why don't you go play the piano."
Course he didn't have a piano,
and didn't know how to play the piano.
Talk about what happened.
We know Edgar Cayce was a very strange child.
Yes.
Lots of trauma and accidents.
Why don't you start with the spike into the brain.
I mean, some people think that may have
had something to do with it.
There's a story and it's fairly well-documented
that when Edgar Cayce was in diapers,
he was sat on a fence post and he rolled,
essentially rolled off the fence post,
onto a nail that was driven into a piece of wood.
They had to pull it out of his cranium.
It's interesting to note, in that number of psychics,
suffered some kind of brain trauma
as adolescents, and even older.
Peter Hurkos, for example, the Dutch psychic,
had no psychic ability, per se.
Until the Nazis invaded Holland and
he was consigned as a, painting army barracks.
He was up on a ladder and he fell two floors
down onto his head and had a steel plate put in his head.
As soon as that steel plate was in,
he was suddenly very gifted, much like Edgar Cayce.
Speaking specifics.
Yes.
Anyway, there's a long history.
To say that this a result of a spike in the brain.
Who knows, it could have just opened
some aspect of an electrical function within his brain.
Or not, but the point is ...
We know Edgar Cayce had gifts as a child.
Even Sidney Kirkpatrick, who was very
skeptical going into it, I was determined to ...
These are the kind of stories that are easily embellished.
Childhood stories, but time and time again,
I actually kept finding documentation.
The story that's often told about Edgar Cayce
is how he could put his head, and lay his head
down on a book and he would know
the entire contents verbatim.
You can say well, this is clearly
an embroidered story.
However, we were able to find an actual
newspaper article talking about a 10 year old
Edgar Cayce giving a presentation
in front of Town Hall, reciting a 250 page,
well it's probably not that long.
But it was witnessed by the entire ...
Let's go back to the piano incident.
So they're trying to do a little parlor game with him,
make a fool of him, 'cause he was easy to hypnotize.
What actually ended up happening?
Well, he actually started playing the piano.
You have readings where he suddenly speaking in Italian.
These are not, again, what's just so compelling
about this is that they're documented, truly documented.
Edgar Cayce was surrounded by physicians
at a very early point in his career,
so you have many, very well-respected physicians,
witnessing these readings.
Secretaries transcribing the readings.
As unbelievable as it may seem, it stands up.
Everyone was trying to test him
to see if this was for real,
because he was so extraordinary.
Thank God there's all this documentation.
Dean of Harvard Medical School, Hugo Münsterberg,
literally came from Cambridge, Massachusetts,
to Beverly, Kentucky to check this man out.
To test him and ultimately, he could not find fraud.
He said, "I don't know how this is happening, or why."
But he didn't deny that this is what he found
and this is what he saw.
It's very compelling.
The work, Edgar Cayce was often asked,
"What is the purpose of the work?"
And in trance, one of the main themes
that'd come through is Edgar Cayce
is to prove the existence of the other dimension.
Prove the truth of psychic phenomena.
Which he certainly succeeded in doing.
And the legacy that has been left for all of us.
In terms of, not only understanding body,
but also mind and spirit and soul,
is really incredible.
On that other dimensional aspect of it,
one of the things I found interesting too,
is that over a period of time,
everyone was accustomed to having their letters answered.
He had a two-year long wait list finally, as time went on.
But he would start doing channellings,
you almost call them, the other being readings,
which were answering questions from
letters that were still in transit.
Still on the boat.
Had not arrived to his residence yet.
He was, obviously, whatever was working through him,
moved beyond time and space.
Whether it was future, past, or present had no ...
It seemed to be very little difference
in terms of his readings.
To add to that, Edgar Cayce was popular
in the later years of his own lifetime.
With the publication of There is a River.
Then, saw a great resurgence in the 1960's.
Meditation, holistic health.
Edgar Cayce is undergoing another resurgence right now.
Since around, it started around 2000
and it has been climbing.
The difference is that people are
not only looking at the health treatments
in a much more specific way, they're looking at inventions.
Science, electronics.
That's what I wanted to talk
to you about a little bit more.
He was consulting with Tesla and Edison.
And many other scientists.
Engineers.
In his lifetime, there was an IBM engineer
who was getting readings.
These readings are absolutely fascinating.
On alternative energy, on flight, on anti-gravity.
Physics.
Subjects which were not totally ignored
in the 1960's, but they weren't studied.
In a way that today, they're being studied.
I'm just very excited about studying Cayce now.
With so much, with a general population
who's suddenly woken up and say,
"Oh my God, what I eat, the quality of the food I eat."
"What I put into my body."
Pharmaceuticals, for example.
How long has it taken before people begin
to understand that the pharmaceutical,
the prescriptions they're taking may not
be that miracle relief that they've been looking for.
Oh, by the way, come along with some
pretty horrible side effects.
Right.
People are waking up.
They wanna go back to the basics.
Of course, this is at the heart, at the root
of the Cayce work, and the material's there.
You just gotta look.
Now, when you were looking through there,
did you happen to see any readings that had to do,
personally see any readings that had to do
with anti-gravity and some of these future technologies?
Absolutely.
It's there.
We have what might be termed a perpetual motion machine.
Which in truth is not a perpetual motion machine,
but it could operate much like that.
It has to do with a kind of polarity motor
and these are blueprints given in the Edgar Cayce readings.
About a giant drum, how the drum has to be built.
The actual specifications.
The gases that have to be pumped inside.
The idea is you immerse this in a tub of water
while you're building it, now don't ask me why
you've gotta be building it in water.
But then, you pull it up and you ...
The idea being is you start turning it,
and once you get it turning and
on the right axis, according to Cayce
this drum will turn forever.
Until you stop it.
Is anyone developing that right now?
Three scientists have been looking at it.
There's a huge wealth of material that is now accessible.
Perhaps for the first time since Edgar Cayce,
first time in history.
You have enough of a mainstream scientists,
physicians, who were willing to look and study this.
Because they're seeing its value.
Whether you buy in or not, of how.
The information came.
Came through.
It's there and it shows how effective it actually is.
Are those ... if a person's a member of A.R.E.
Can they have access to these files?
Absolutely, online.
They can read all of these online?
Membership's like thirty, forty dollars.
It's nothing.
It's very inexpensive.
You can actually buy the readings
on a CD-ROM, or a DVD-ROM, DV drive.
Are they categorized by subjects?
The material is out there.
Yes.
So it could be alternative energy, for example.
Yes, I mean it's not quite as easy
as typing in alternative energy and you're gonna
get these blueprints.
It's not that way.
Don't fool yourself when they refer
to the Cayce work, it is work.
It is work.
I don't want to put you off.
It's not an easy, slam-dunk kind of thing.
You have to put some energy into it
to understand some of the language coming through.
Like in the physics readings.
There were no terms in 1918, 1919,
when Cayce was giving these for what
the source was trying to convey.
There were no language, had not been developed for this.
It's difficult in some respects.
You have to study it, you have to use it.
But the material is there,
just like in the medical readings.
One quote I loved,
as I was digging through there.
When he was talking about electricity,
and talking about the human being, and energy.
And the hierarchy of how the
human functions is, electricity is life.
That's huge.
Because when we're looking at future technologies.
You got it, you're really onto ...
I'm so glad you picked up on that because
as you get more deeper into this work.
As you start really studying the readings.
One of the wonderful aspects is that
what may interest you at first about Edgar Cayce;
you may be interested in Atlantis.
Which of course, is covered a great deal.
So you come into it this way.
Or your husband has male-pattern baldness
or you've got breast cancer, or psoriasis.
Or you're interested in reincarnation.
You come at this Cayce work through
these different avenues, but as you
get into it, you start realizing that
Atlantis and these medical readings
share a lot of the same principles.
Then you get into it a little deeper.
Let's say you're waist high into this stuff.
You start realizing, not only they share principles,
but when you start talking about the physics readings.
And you start talking about
the vibrational nature of everything.
Of medicine.
And say, "Why is it important?"
This woman is asking for medical help
and she's told to carry a piece of azurite,
which is a mineral, with them at all times.
How can that be medically related?
You start realizing that it is a whole.
And that to really understand the physics readings,
you're gonna have to go in the medical readings,
then you're gonna have to go ...
You start realizing that they really are
all one and the same.
That's an exciting moment.
But it's not a point that's easily reached.
Well, I can't imagine
how this would not have changed your life.
You continue on, you write for the magazine
on a regular basis.
Just recently, I've just started.
They asked for a column, so I've been writing a column.
It's a fun change.
And tomorrow you're giving a lecture,
which I'll be happy to be able to sit in on.
Good, okay.
And then you also do with the soul family, right?
That'll be very interesting, because
that's what piques my interest.
Looking at characters throughout history.
Also, one of the things I can touch on,
which I personally like, is ...
We were talking about Edgar Cayce being
a strange bird as a child.
You know, he had imaginary playmates.
Yes.
Many of us have had imaginary playmates.
I certainly did.
With Edgar Cayce, those playmates
had first and last names.
They had families.
They had very exotic histories.
Which a farm child from the 1870's
in rural Beverly, Kentucky should not
have been talking about Persia, Egypt.
(laughing) He has little friends from Egypt.
Yes.
I'm gonna tell you about that,
because it's remarkable later on in Cayce's life.
Long after the imaginary playmates have disappeared.
Long after the schoolmates who taunted him
as the freak, were out of his life.
Years later, when he's living over here, in Virginia Beach.
Couple blocks, half a mile from here.
One of the last readings he gave was to ask,
"Who were those imaginary playmates?"
He asked himself.
One of the last requests that he had
of the source, "Who were they?"
"Were they real?"
And?
Well, we'll just have to find out.
You're gonna have to come hear me tomorrow.
It's really ... absolutely ...
It opens up a whole other door.
It's a type of lecture I like.
I also like giving lectures on the
odd and unusual in Cayce work.
Yes.
Because these things interest me.
Well, just from what you've already done, I thank you.
I haven't gotten all the way through the book
because I didn't have time, but that's
going to be my companion for a little while,
to finish that book, I just love what you've done.
Tomorrow, I'll get the answer to that story.
Who those playmates are.
And I might just share it with everybody.
Thank you so much for your time.
Like you say, you've incorporated all this into your life.
You and your family you use the philosophies
and the remedies, because it just makes sense and it works.
Yeah
All righty, enough said.
Thank you so much, Sidney.
Thank you.
While a devotee of Cayce's work
on a personal level and professional,
Sidney has written several other intriguing books.
His most recent being, "Hitler's Holy Relics."
To connect with his blogs and work,
you can go to his website at
sidneykirkpatrick.blogspot.com
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.